#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
First, the neuroscience.
 The technical research question I'm exploring is comparatively small.
 First, can introducing a set of transcription factors into stem cells change
 their differentiation fate (the literature suggests yes), thus making P19
 stem cells a useful model system for serotonin receptors? If yes, I would
 then use that system to explore the effects of 5-HTR activation by different
 ligands, tracking the effect of different substrates on various markers
 of cellular activity, from immediate receptor desensitization to changes
 in gene transcription.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 If cellular activity differs between ligands acting at the same receptors,
 it provides insight into why different drugs cause different perceptual
 effects.
 So that's the neuroscience.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Instead of a specific cultural aspect interacting directly with the “hard”
 science as I’ve seen in some CBD projects, I'm interested in looking more
 broadly at how the cultural surroundings of science can be used to do better
 science, specifically better neuroscience.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One way to explore this is looking at how science production changes when
 lab notebooks go online or raw data is freed and subject to scrutiny.
 By both opening up with my own work and looking at larger trends of open
 science, I can get a better handle on the value of such practices.
 Essentially, I want to generate my own data in the lab and have the global
 community critique and contribute it as a means to examining open source
 science in practice, not just theory.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The even bigger encapsulating question around all of this is constantly
 considering the global aspects of knowledge – where, and by who, is “knowledge”
 of any kind produced and used.
 One example is the claims by open science advocates that developing countries
 need open access publications to “catch up” with the rest of us and even
 the playing field.
 But that narrative is disrupted by the actual scholars of the Global South
 -- discussions of how open access can reinforce colonial consumer-producer
 relationships [2] or how open access doesn't rectify the disparity in the
 number of peer-reviewed international journals indexed by the Thomson-Reuters
 Web of Science (4% of Latin American journals in 2012) and the consequent
 impact factor that drives the current academic system [5].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These are broad questions about culture and science as a system, but my
 foray into stem cell differentiation will be done in such a way as to model
 how science can (and perhaps should) interact with the culture around it
 and start addressing those issues, both scientific and cultural.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
