#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass tufte-handout
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
New Ecologies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Joshua Paul
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
May 2010
\end_layout

\begin_layout Address
A Division III with Herb Bernstein
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Knowledge work is being performed continuously.
 Not of one volume of knowledge, but many unique knowledges, which don't
 always agree.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of many worlds, we live and act in a scientized one.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Even people who fail to agree on the polarized topics of religion, politics,
 and the like are quick to support the scientific knowledge that provides
 them with their medicines, transportation, and entertainment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consider that our scientific way of knowing is so, so short - but can we
 even think about our world without science as to explain it?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
I am not writing to say that I do not believe in science; I am writing because
 I know I have no other choice but to believe in it, and this is the feeling
 that intrigues me\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 Do I feel this way because science 
\emph on
works
\emph default
, and I can see its successes all around me?\SpecialChar \ldots{}
 Just as there are many knowledges
 and worlds, there may also be many truths, all working in unique ways.
 A brief reconsideration of the word 
\emph on
work
\emph default
 might put our scientized beings in a whole new light.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consider that to work is to work 
\emph on
for
\emph default
 something or someone; to work for a reason and for a specific tasks.
 Objects and practices only have value when they accomplish a goal 
\emph on
for
\emph default
 someone or something.
 Science is good at creating useful things.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But does it work for everyone?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
I do not think I need to argue that high-powered explosives do not work
 for the people they incinerate, or that the internal combustion engine
 does not work for the beings experiencing the first effects of climate
 change.
 \SpecialChar \ldots{}
Scientific truths must therefore be considered stakeholder-specific, with
 regard to the intentions of the user and their definition of 
\emph on
work
\emph default
.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
\SpecialChar \ldots{}

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How can pluralities help us better understand current scientized environments?
 Can science do good?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Knowing New Ecologies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We all want to save the world, because we are told the world needs saving.
 College-educated youth bear that burden; we are sometimes drawn towards
 the sciences to help save people.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Forgive me if I recount an established tension, a perpetuity, or a “fact
 of life” that might seem obvious to you.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the couorse of performing research, the work becomes harder to justify
 in local terms.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
I aim to show the ways in which my particular scientific research question
 becomes only tangentially related to the popularized and somewhat symbolic
 issues of climate change, invasive species, and the effects of industry
 and consumption on our environment, but still retains the potential to
 be legitimized as “good” science.
 What is the system of values and judgments that allows the scientific enterpris
e to flourish, but prevents the kind of direct and meaningful application
 that should be the motivation of knowledge work?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Performative Questioning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Like a musical performance, research is a knowledge performance.
 How is the stage set? What separates audience and performer? Who is paying
 for stage lights and the crew?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In ecology, the question can be far removed from local and people's actual
 concerns.
 Tangential relationships to climate change or to human needs are enough
 to secure scientific acceptance; it doesn't 
\emph on
matter
\emph default
 if research is socially relevant.
 Small-scale puzzle-solving activity becomes an ambiguous 
\emph on
good.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Mediated through popular symbols, the destructive actions of industrialized
 society become concentrated on select issues, naturalized through ecology
 and its performances, taking on the guise of an ecological or technological
 puzzle rather than what could easily be construed as a systemic social
 problem.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this case, the ecology project conresn the hemlock wooly adelgid, which
 is currently destroying hemlocks and was transported to North America via
 international shipping.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

\SpecialChar \ldots{}
where is the ringing condemnation of the source of the problem? Why do no
 scientists come outright and say “this invasive species is killing our
 native trees – we therefore suggest that global corporations start to give
 a damn when trading internationally?”.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Scientists cannot just abandon their field; a refusal leads to mere fatalist
 acceptance of the status qu.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Because society does look to the sciences for the answers to our problems,
 scientists should feel as if they can give answers and make value judgments.
 I believe that these answers can be simple and straightforward, perhaps
 even bold and risky.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mapping the Performative World
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The act of questioning is presented as a linear process.
 Projects start witha literary review; this initaties one into scientific
 media and prepares us to decode and then to produce the language and representa
tions.
 The text 
\emph on
performs
\emph default
 knowledge -- performs for each new reader.
\begin_inset Marginal
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Obviously this performance we know and freely -- with delight -- acknowledge
 in fiction and longer literary works; poems sing to us; words have power
 and in other contexts we acknowledge the role of the physical// text in
 co-producing with us
\end_layout

\end_inset

 The reader/audience connects the text/performance to the catalog of shared
 media, thus 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

activating
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 the text.
 If texts are active, and knowledge workers use that to create meaning,
 a community of trainees should produce the same meanings frm an overlapping
 set of texts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The questioning is bounded by previous meanings: boundaries are set by the
 communities past and ongoing work.
 Performances are stylized by doing [the method] and meaning [the results].
 Assumptions about the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

questionable universe
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 are 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

built in and are indistinguishable from the stage technologies
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset


\begin_inset Marginal
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
p.
 17
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Flex NewThought
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The creative act
\end_layout

\end_inset

 (science's creative act) must reference a style and a meaning of a social
 community.
 Questioning is only valid in the context of a community 
\begin_inset Marginal
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
but what about Galileo? Newton? Marie-Curie? Plato? People operating w/o
 communities.
 I think they had communities -- e.g.
 Galileo worked 
\emph on
with
\emph default
 the church for much of his time.
 etcetc Marie Curie 
\emph on
was
\emph default
 recognized.
 Plato had, I don't know, other philosophers, probably.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Theories as lenses that tell us where to look (Fortun & Bernstein).
 Theories mediate our 'vision', teling us how and where to look at an altered
 and constructed nature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Questins that are allowed are questions that fit.
 Questions and answers must be produced through the same lens the rest of
 the community uses.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
