#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrreprt
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{preamble}

\usepackage{cite}
\end_preamble
\options twoside,openright,titlepage,fleqn,pointlessnumbers,headinclude,10pt,a4paper,BCOR5mm,footinclude,cleardoubleempty
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\shape smallcaps
Michael Brown was shot and killed
\shape default
, and he was 18, and the majority of white people think that our justice
 system operated apprpraitely and reasonably in declining to even put his
 killer on trial.
 How can I study science when this is only one case among hundreds of systematic
 uses of power from which I benefit?
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Division III is a year long undergraduate thesis project; for me, it's both
 articulating and creating I began with neuroscience, and a naive fascination
 with pathologies of the brain and perception.
 I have since learned or come to believe that my interests, and what I do
 with those interests, has an impact on the world -- this is both self-interest,
 for otherwise what's the point? and self-recrimination; my impact on the
 world is my responsibility, and I need to figure out ways to meld a shattered
 world view into a practice that has tangible effects on the people and
 society around me.
 People are society; if we don't change them, we cannot begin to move forward.
 Change can come from the top or the bottom, but we write the laws, we execute
 them, and we -- humans -- create our societies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The pathologies of the brain are still intriguing, but so loaded with societal
 implications that I cannot try to unravel them without also examining the
 long term effect of 
\emph on
my
\emph default
 research, specifically, but more broadly the impact of cellular-level research
 etc., on local and global communities.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One tactic I found early in my Hampshire experiences was free/libre software
 and its sibling in the sciences, open science (more specifically, open
 access).
 Both movements acknowledge more than just the functionality of science
 and technology; they include society in their calculations.
 While to my current chagrin much of open science does not appear (at first
 glance, at least) to be founded on the same moral basis as Richard Stallman's
 free/libre software movement, it is nonetheless science, as a whole, that
 shares much of that [theoretically] moral spirit.
 On both practical levels and a deeper moral level, open science seems justifiab
le and 
\emph on
right
\emph default
 for the same reason free software and free culture feel 
\emph on
right
\emph default
 -- they are technologies and creations with a care beyond profit, and give
 more than a token nod to the users and producers of work.
 They also often produce powerful software/knowledge with an amazingly small
 amount of money, which makes their farflung rhetoric more believable.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I think, and hope, that open science and its intimate linkage to scientific
 culture is also an avenue to introduce moral-societal considerations into
 research.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
