#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass scrreprt
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{preamble}

\usepackage{cite}
\end_preamble
\options twoside,openright,titlepage,fleqn,pointlessnumbers,headinclude,10pt,a4paper,BCOR5mm,footinclude,cleardoubleempty
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
why am I doing this?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Division III is a year long undergraduate thesis project; for me, it's both
 problematizing and exploring solutions to those problems.
 I began with neuroscience, and a naive fascination with pathologies of
 the brain and perception.
 I have since learned or come to believe that my interests, and what I do
 with those interests, has an impact on the world -- this is both self-presevera
tion, for otherwise what's the point? and self-recrimination; my impact
 on the world is my responsibility, and I need to figure out ways to meld
 a shattered world view into a practice that has tangible effects on the
 people and society around me.
 People are society; if we don't change them, we cannot begin to move forward.
 Change can come from the top or the bottom, but we write the laws, we execute
 them, and we -- humans -- create our societys.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The pathologies of the brain are still intriguing, but so loaded with societal
 implications that I cannot try to unravel them without also examining the
 long term effect of my research, specifically, but more broadly the impact
 of cellular-level research etc.
 on vulnerable (vulnerability being conferred by long-standing encoded discrimin
ation that results in genetic, economic, or social exclusion [or the potential
 thereof]) groups.
 One solution I found early in my tenuous and at the time exploratory/unguided
 phase was free/libre software and its sibling in the sciences, open science.
 While to my current chagrin much of open science does not appear (at first
 glance, at least) to be founded on the same moral basis as Stallman's GNU/libre
 brainchild, it is nonetheless science that shares much of that [theoretically]
 moral spirit.
 On both practical levels and a deeper moral level, open science seemed
 justifiable and 
\emph on
right
\emph default
 for the same reason free software and free culture feel 
\emph on
right
\emph default
 -- they are technologies and creations with a care beyond profit, and give
 more than a token nod to users/productrs of work.They also produce amazing
 and powerful things with very little money, which makes their highflying
 rhetoric more believable.
 And their stuff is usually free-of-cost, never mind the licenscing debates.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Users have power.
 In open science, scientists can reclaim power (by taking control of distributio
n, by interacting with the common folk, by engaging in conversations), although
 it's of course limited to only one direction and to limited effect.
 In free software, users 
\emph on
can
\emph default
 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
graffito{although maybe this actually deserves more than a token nod to
 the 'can...and that ability-without-usability is where some of our problems
 come from}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 do all of the above as well, and regain power.
 It's what I imagine Marxism, if I knew anything about Mar
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So the mundane first.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
